hey what's up this is a very unusual
video for me I have something quite
complex to talk about and I'm going to
try to state it very succinctly after
recording longer monologues on the same
topic I'm recording this by the way and
Chiang Mai Thailand but this video is
not about the fact that I'm in Chiang
Mai Thailand it's not about what's going
on with veganism chain mai thailand i
already have some reflections like that
poster to my patreon and i will talk
about that a bit in future here on
youtube as well this video is closer to
the core issues of effective activism of
how do we make a positive change how do
we organize politically for ecology
veganism animal rights etc a large part
of what we do as vegans from the
perspective of political science is a
boycott bo Y C OTT if you're vegan you
may have never heard the word boycott a
vegans generally don't describe what
they're doing as a boycott but
politically that's what it is what is
boycott mean boycott means that you're
refusing to buy something yourself and
you're encouraging others to refuse to
buy it also some kind of social movement
some kind of activism maybe of protests
in the street telling people not to buy
these things so when I was a child many
people wanted political change in South
Africa to simplify what they wanted was
for South Africa to be less racist and
they tried to pursue this political
change through boycotts these boycotts
were promoted with street protests
interviews on the news articles in
newspapers and magazines but a case was
made was presented the general public
look south africa is an immoral country
it's a deeply racist country and we need
to do our part we need to do something
positive by refusing to buy certain
things we can put some kind of indirect
pressure on South Africa to change to be
less racist to change its government now
whether or not this is actually
effective is really another question
what the effects are for the people
participating in the boycott is what I
would hear draw attention to more
recently and when I was an adult only a
few years ago there were a lot of people
who wanted to boycott
Myanmar the country formerly known as
Burma they felt the human rights
situation in Myanmar was so terrible the
Civil War situation in reality Myanmar
was in a situation civil war for many
years they felt this was so negative
that the outside world should put
pressure on Myanmar to become more
democratic through a boycott now
obviously this didn't work and part of
the problem you know part of all these
whether or not boycotts can really bring
about these kinds of political changes
but part of the problem that I TR
emphasize is the effect on the activists
as an individual if you're a vegan do
you become vegan to cut yourself off
from the brutal reality of animal
agriculture or do you plunge yourself
into it do you face up with it do you
engage it are you a vegan who would
never visit a zoo who feels morally pure
tone oh no I boycott these things I
would never set foot nezu or you a vegan
whose activism involves visiting many
zoos and of being really aware of and
really well informed about the
differences between zoos in different
countries the laws that regulate zoos
the questions of animal rights in
practice the questions of zoos doing
captive breeding programs for endangered
animals the different guidelines for our
zoos just preserving animals are they
trying to return them to the wild are
they perhaps torturing the animals or
are they forcing the animals to perform
like trained you know trained animals
performing in a show I can very well
imagine a vegan being engaged in devoted
to and dedicated those those issues and
for that reason very frequently paying
the money to visit a zoo because that
for them is is part of their activism as
part of how they educate themselves now
likewise if you're actually trying to
change so that change South Africa going
to South Africa would be part of that if
you're trying to change Myanmar going
there we part of it and simply
boycotting it simply saying I don't buy
anything maiden so that of course I
don't buy anything made in Myanmar for
one thing it's insufficient to cause
social change but for another thing you
are cutting yourself off from that
reality instead of being engaged with it
and obviously boycotts involve not doing
business with the other side that you're
boycotting
but someone in a very humble line of
work someone like a I remember I met a
guy who worked in advertising he took he
was a photographer and took photographs
for advertising and he lived in Myanmar
and naturally he learned a great deal
about political conditions there and he
goes there and sees it engaged with it
and in some ways he was in a better
position to advocate for social change
at least a vana formed an informed
opinion then someone who stays outside
of Myanmar and says oh no I'm to morally
pure to come down to your level I'm to
morally pure to go to the slaughterhouse
or to go to the farm to see for myself
to get familiar get acquainted and and
be engaged these things I find it
problematic that the boycott leads us to
think of ourselves as isolated
individuals at the center of a circle an
isolated individual at the center of a
circle of harm trying to shrink that
circle of harm trying to reduce the harm
being done that is part of what we do as
vegans but it can never be adequate it
can never be effective a social movement
it definitely I mean these other
examples it can never bring about the
end of a war can never cause a
transition to democracy it may be
meaningful for you personally to refuse
to buy something for ethical reasons I
totally relate to that I do it myself
every day there are all kinds of things
I refuse to buy for ethical reasons not
just due to veganism if you think
something is being manufactured in a
country that has slave labor it's
natural that you were going to want to
avoid buying that but the real challenge
is to instead think of yourself as an
isolated individual in the middle of a
circle of influence and of trying to
expand that circle of influence to
actually change the system around you
not just to reduce the harm you're doing
by passively contributing to that system
but passively being a part of that
system an economic system social system
etc now i can use examples that involve
war and i can use examples that are
directly related to ecology right now
the quality of this video is lower than
usual because i'm filming in thailand
and we're using these
new ecological light bulbs they
supposedly save electricity are better
for the environment they supposedly use
less mercury or put less mercury in the
environment i have read that i don't
know if that's true you could never
bring about this social transformation
you could never bring about the
transition from a society that uses the
old-fashioned light bulbs to the society
that uses the new light bulbs just
through a boycott it would never have
that outcome okay and well think about
practically the maximum percentage the
population you could actually motivate
at any one time to be boycotting the
other type of light bulbs to say we
refuse to buy the old level if you got
five percent of the population motivated
to boycott one type of light bulbs have
been great accomplished if you've got
thirty percent you would have one of the
largest social movements in the history
of the world's very unlikely and for us
as vegans again the percentage of people
you can get who are passively meet
avoiding passively semi vegan may be
high may be significant I mean you know
again you can look at the caste system
in India you can look at the history of
Buddhism religions have proven that they
could motivate a huge number of people
to be vegetarian or semi vegan or even
outright vegan yes okay maybe um but the
type of social change we want to make
especially if it's within our lifetimes
is probably going to involve a very
small percentage of population being
motivated to actually bring about the
change obviously the switch to the new
light bulbs was only possible because
someone made a convincing case to the
government to the government's in many
countries and made a convincing case to
industry look this technology people are
still going to be able to read books
it's not going to destroy society it's
safe it relies it's reliable it works
and it really brings about these
ecological benefits so we need you to
take some kind of action to change the
system and of course that could be tax
incentives from the government could be
guidelines and regulations it could be
laws ultimately making the less
efficient light bulbs illegal depends on
how gradual transition you want or what
have you and ultimately of course there
are public education campaigns connected
these things
this way of thinking of being engaged
with the problem engage with the
industry and of putting together a
convincing case that we have a
substitute that works that's very
different from the boycott model or the
boycott mentality engagement is
educational both for yourself as an
activist and for the people around you
people you engage with as I say for me
the advantage of actually going to
Myanmar instead of just boycotting it or
actually going to South Africa is who
you are who you become as an individual
how much you know how you feel that
you've seen it yourself that you really
have something to offer as an activist
as a leader or when you give a interview
to a newspaper or something that you
really know this stuff you're not just
sitting at home feeling morally superior
and refusing to buy something and the
outcomes you can't control maybe you
never achieve your outcomes but out of
that engagement you changed as a person
uh it's very rare to meet someone who
actually visits prisons and I have met
and spoken to those people at different
times my life I've wanted to be involved
in prison activism but you know activism
to improve prison conditions and I've
met and spoken with people who have
experienced that kind one guy very
memorably a white British guy who did
that in Laos lao people's democratic
public about actually going to the
prison's seeing the conditions of the
prisoners talking to the wardens and the
jailers and finding out how the prison
system works if you don't actually go
there and do that and that's a subject I
don't I don't think you can learn what
you need to know from books I believe
I'm a big fan of book learning a lot of
what I know about the world I learned
from books but there are some things you
only really know from going there and
doing it yourself and many people feel
even if they have read about it that
until they actually go to a
slaughterhouse or until they see certain
aspects of you know the ecological or
ethical sides of what veganism is all
about that they don't really know it so
I mean part of what I think is dangerous
about the boy
caught mentality although boycotting and
and have more active activism they're
not mutually exclusive you can do both I
think as vegans we all aspire to do both
is that the boycott can lead you into
attempts to be pure attempts to withdraw
yourself and then once you've adopted
that mentality is your fundamental
political praxis you also get into
problems of where does this end what is
the objective what is the end goal and
if it's ah going to James lately he
struggles with this like emotionally and
personally he he feels that he can't
justify buying items made at a plastic I
got one right here much better if we
could transition a society away from
using plastic of this kind but again
that would that would ultimately take
government regulations I couldn't
couldn't possibly do it on a boycott
level you know how can you justify
wearing cotton cotton is massive as
massive ecologic Oh impacts of course it
kills insects unless you're kidding
yourself as a vegan you must realize the
use of pesticides and just process
vehicles yourself kills animals kills
insects what have you it is what it is
he is thinking of himself as that
isolate individual at the center of a
circle of harm and of trying to shrink
that circle of harm as much as possible
and what I'm trying to say in this video
is to instead think of yourself as the
isolated individual who's working to
overcome that isolation so that they can
expand their circle events influence and
so they can use that influence to
fundamentally change the system I don't
really like the fact that I rely on
these bottles even if they are recycled
and I know this is a superior technology
a disposable plastic and disposable
aluminum aluminum as massive ecological
impacts high intensity the production of
it is energy intensive there's a lot to
say about aluminum technologically any
society can make the transition to
having standardized reusable glass
bottles bottles that are collected
washed sent back to the industry's
relabeled refill
set out again and that is exponentially
better for the environment than having a
glass bottle that is melted down and
forged into glass again or having a
piece of plastic that is melted down and
forged into some other + object washing
and reusing glass bottles is so much
better the environment than using an
aluminum can for the purpose of
transporting coca-cola from a corner
store to your apartment perhaps only a
few meters there's no justification for
that but how can we actually bring about
that change it will never be
accomplished through a boycott and if
you could actually motivate just five
percent of the population to be to be
passionate about refusing to buy
aluminum cans it still won't bring about
the change if you could motivate thirty
percent it still won't bring about that
change right that change is only going
to come when people institute a new
system it's almost certainly going to
involve the government or come from the
government if not it could come from a
donor like Bill Gates a millionaire
could instead be leading this kind of
systemic change but ultimately you need
a social organization that's going to
provide guidelines to these bottles
that's going to distribute and collect
every history of these bottles that's
going to incentivize industry to
reorganize itself because these
companies the coca-cola company PepsiCo
don't make money either way they're
happy to compete either way but who is
going to lead that process of social
change away from the plastic and the
aluminum into using reusable glass that
is an intervention that changes the
system that's not an isolated individual
just trying to shrink their own circle
of harm right and again everything I
talked about on this channel at the
humblest level of five vegans getting
together and trying to have a pancake
stand to promote veganism or trying to
illustrate a children's book of Avia's
amor engaging in public education or
protest or lobbying government for
change all of these things what I'm
emphasizing is that process of
engagement and organization leading to
systemic change even though I do engage
in the boycott I'm boycotting meat milk
and a million other things right now
you have to appreciate the powerlessness
of boycotting as a method that
ultimately it's a sort of pathetic
method of pursuing social change and I
would say also the danger of the boycott
mentality is that boycotts allow people
to delude themselves into thinking
they're members of a mass movement when
in reality totally diverse and divisive
groups of people are united by the
boycott without really being United so
when we had the boycotts against South
Africa there were extreme left-wing
groups including Communists and then
we'll right-wing conservative groups
that were all opposed to racism in South
Africa now apart from just normal
conservatives you can imagine a
traditional black church in Georgia you
know african-americans in a conservative
church in Georgia they might have been
activists on this issue of opposed to
racism and South Africa the apartheid
governments of ever they want to change
engage in this boycott and at the same
time there are left-wing communists
totally different political ideas but
also respecting different leaders they
have no common leadership no common
organization no common social movement
but they are united by the boycott
itself without really being united right
and that's a large part of what's going
on right now in veganism right and my
heart goes are these people I get email
recently from Poland from Muslim
majority countries in the Middle East I
get email from all parts of Europe
obviously from from America I get email
from people in different countries all
around the world who are trying to
organize vegans into effective activists
of some kind of course one of the first
stumbling blocks they come on is these
people have nothing in common how do you
organize them how do you get them
together and so on again this this
struggle is at least exacerbated by the
boycott mentality
of course you could be in the opposite
situation of having a very narrowly
defined movement that has trouble
reaching out to other people that's not
the situation rent veganism in 2016 is
internally divided divisive fragmentary
there are conservatives there are
liberals there are all kinds there are a
lot of people who are x and r XX or
people just trying to lose weight vegan
for health reasons there i mean there's
such a weird diversity of motives
bringing people into veganism that yes
it's an enormous challenge to move past
the boycott mentality and yet there are
no two ways about it i mean in the next
10 years that is exactly what we have to
do